Meets Specifications
Dear Student,

This is a well written and interesting project proposal of a real world image classification problem.

I'm looking forward to see what you will do in the second stage of the project.

Once more excellent job :) Keep it up :)

Project Proposal
Student clearly describes the problem that is to be solved. The problem is well defined and has at least one relevant potential solution. Additionally, the problem is quantifiable, measurable, and replicable.

The description of the problem that is to be solved is simple and easy to understand as well as quantifiable, measurable, and replicable. Good job :)

Student briefly details background information of the domain from which the project is proposed. Historical information relevant to the project should be included. It should be clear how or why a problem in the domain can or should be solved. Related academic research should be appropriately cited. A discussion of the student's personal motivation for investigating a particular problem in the domain is encouraged but not required.

Excellent job explaining the Domain Background. :)

Great job citing relevant articles.

Student clearly describes a solution to the problem. The solution is applicable to the project domain and appropriate for the dataset(s) or input(s) given. Additionally, the solution is quantifiable, measurable, and replicable.

Student proposes at least one evaluation metric that can be used to quantify the performance of both the benchmark model and the solution model presented. The evaluation metric(s) proposed are appropriate given the context of the data, the problem statement, and the intended solution.

Accuracy is suitable for this kind of a problem.

You can look up F1 score as well, this data set is imbalanced and for minority classes F1 score would produce more realistic and interpretable results.

Take a look at the following resources:

https://machinelearningmastery.com/tactics-to-combat-imbalanced-classes-in-your-machine-learning-dataset/

https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.metrics.f1_score.html

A benchmark model is provided that relates to the domain, problem statement, and intended solution. Ideally, the student's benchmark model provides context for existing methods or known information in the domain and problem given, which can then be objectively compared to the student's solution. The benchmark model is clearly defined and measurable.

A CNN trained from scratch is an excellent benchmark model for the problem at hand.

Research articles are also an excellent benchmark: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/325384896_Modified_Deep_Neural_Networks_for_Dog_Breeds_Identification

The dataset(s) and/or input(s) to be used in the project are thoroughly described. Information such as how the dataset or input is (was) obtained, and the characteristics of the dataset or input, should be included. It should be clear how the dataset(s) or input(s) will be used in the project and whether their use is appropriate given the context of the problem.

Detailed description of the dataset has been provided.

You could have provided more information on the fact that the data is imbalanced. How many examples are there for each class?

This effects the choice of the metric. Accuracy is ok if you have balanced data but in the case of unbalanced data F1 score would produce a more realistic and interpretable result.

Student summarizes a theoretical workflow for approaching a solution given the problem. A discussion is made as to what strategies may be employed, what analysis of the data might be required, or which algorithms will be considered. The workflow and discussion provided align with the qualities of the project. Small visualizations, pseudocode, or diagrams are encouraged but not required.

Well written project design stages :)

Tips:
Take a look at image augmentation techniques.
https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2019/12/image-augmentation-deep-learning-pytorch/

One can use cross validation to check the robustness of the solution. Take a look here:
https://machinelearningmastery.com/k-fold-cross-validation/

Visualizing and interpreting model results:
SHAP (SHapley Additive exPlanations) is a game theoretic approach to explain the output of any machine learning model. It connects optimal credit allocation with local explanations using the classic Shapley values from game theory and their related extensions see the following link:
https://github.com/slundberg/shap

The proposal follows a well-organized structure and would be readily understood by its intended audience. Each section is written in a clear, concise and specific manner. Few grammatical and spelling mistakes are present. All resources used and referenced are properly cited.

Good structure of the whole report. Great job :)

You did not need to include the parts that go beyond the proposal.
